in this tutorial you will learn how to
create sound reactive Motion Graphics
like these with 100 pure blender no
add-ons or scripting required
we have three distinct things going on
here the bubbles in the center for the
low frequencies like the kick drums and
bass particles for sounds in the
mid-range frequencies flying faster for
louder sounds and the random red laser
lines for bursts in the high frequency
ranges
welcome blenderheads and the 70 of
viewers who are not subscribed yet well
please do me a favor and don't forget to
like subscribe and drop a comment while
you're watching and learning new skills
for free thank you if you have never
seen geometry or simulation notes in
blender before I recommend the playlist
Linked In the card and video description
now let's fire up blender and make some
cool audio based animations
this is Sylvie and this tutorial has the
Sylvie seal of approval I am using
blender 3.6.1 for this and the first
thing of course we want to do is get the
audio in but before that it's important
to set the frame rate now we're going to
do the same thing as in the demo we're
gonna have the base the mid frequencies
and then the high frequencies so we're
going to use the cube for the base
um let's add in an icosphere and a
Taurus for the high frequencies
so essentially what we're going to do is
assign the the volume of our audio file
the base part to the cube okay how do we
do that so we go to let's go to
animation
and on frame one so this is important
you have to go shift across the left
greencast Keys showing here so shift
cursor left takes you to frame one and
on that frame one we're gonna insert a
location iframe
okay
and then we're going to take the C
location
we can turn this into the graph editor
for example and we're gonna take we
don't need this we just want the C
location on frame one and then we go to
channel
and here you can go bake a sound to F
curves which is exactly what we want and
then I take my desired music and in here
is where basically the magic happens so
for the base for the cube we only want
the base and the base we're gonna take
from frequency zero to 300 let's just do
that and then big sound to F curve and
you can see we have some stuff in here
now of course this audio file is a
longer
so let's click normalize and let's see
how long it is and then we're just going
to drag our end frame out to cover the
entire song
now we can see here that there's
basically almost no base in the
beginning of this song and then there's
some Kick Drum hits and then there's a
quiet again now if I hit a space bar to
play we can see our cube is moving and
it's moving with the base part of our
song and then when the bass
kicks in we can see it's moving a lot
more however we can't hear anything yet
but we can fix that we can go to the
video editing part of blender and bring
in the same
audio file
plop that in where is it oh of course I
wasn't on frame one now but that doesn't
matter I can just go frame one move that
to frame one and then go back to my
animation and if I hit spacebar now
um I hope you can hear it a little bit
in the background I have the music
playing and I can hear and see what's
happening so as I said this is just the
base you can see this is reacting really
quite nicely to the base
now let's do the same thing with the mid
range so let's go back to frame one this
is important because of the baking
because it I think it starts on the
frame that you're currently on and do
you always want to be on frame one so
they are they all line up okay so
icosphere we need an location iframe
we go to the C location a channel
big sound take the same one and let's do
300 to I don't know let's do four
thousand okay
uh that will be the the mid-range uh
part of
the sound Spectrum
pick that in okay so there is a lot more
happening in the beginning here whereas
there's almost no base okay looking good
now let's do the high frequencies again
frame one insert location
go to the C location Channel
big sound pick the sound and let's go
from four thousand to 20K
and that's it for the high frequencies
all right so the it works oh let me say
first
and then let's go back to frame one hit
spacebar
okay so there's a lot happening in the
mid range here a little bit in the high
frequencies a little bit in the low
frequencies but then when the bass comes
in this is the base
the high frequencies the high
frequencies are always a bit tricky
because there's not that much in the
super high frequencies happening and
they're always overlapping a lot with
the mid but that's just how it is my
name is Chris and I make free blender
tutorials if you enjoy the content
please give the video a thumbs up and
subscribe thank you back to the tutorial
let's go to Geometry notes because
that's what we're going to do most of
the work uh over here I would like to
create a new collection let's call it
audio and take the ancosphere cube and
the Taurus and just drag it into the
audio collection first thing we want to
do is let's maybe take care of the base
okay so for the base animation I had
those bubbles in the center of the
screen
maybe let's just align our camera also
again we don't have screencast keys are
showing up an rx90 and gy bring it out
look through the camera this is what
we're looking at now we're going to need
an object for our base uh Motion
Graphics so let's bring an object in it
doesn't matter what or actually does it
matter
probably not we just let's just take an
ecosphere
okay
Bring It Forward maybe a little bit
and on this object here let's call that
a base
on the base object we create a new
geometry nodes node tree and in here
we're gonna now take in the information
of our Cube pin this view so now we can
drag in the cube because that's our base
audio information and it's stored in the
location here
but it's only in the C component of the
location so we have to separate
x y z and this is now the volume of the
base part of our audio file cool so what
do we want to do we want to probably go
into let's look through the camera once
more
let's maybe scale this up
also I should have subdivided this a lot
more probably
so let's make it a little bit rounder
okay now we're going to distribute some
points onto this so we wanted this
tribute points on faces and the density
is actually what we're going to plug in
from our audio information so so when
there's a lot of bass happening then we
have more points distributed onto our
ecosphere
let's see if it works so let's go here
we have the music playing
okay we can see
more Bass
and we get more points distributed all
right seems to be pretty cool but we
want to maybe take away the really quiet
parts
now I didn't find a smooth solution for
sort of a high pass filter
but we can always just do
maybe a compare
compare and say okay if our volume
information
is less than I don't know 0.3 then we
want to switch
a float value float
um
okay so if it's less than we want zero
if it's greater than we want this
okay and then also we should add
probably a math node so we can multiply
our value
a little bit
bring this over and this is our density
in a team
okay so when there's when there's almost
no bass happening we have zero point and
only if our value is above 0.3 we get
some points we can increase this to a
0.5
all right all right that's the base
information now this is just a point
Cloud there's nothing to render and we
can't actually see anything if we would
hit render now so right away we can do
in in instance on points
and what do we want to instance
maybe an icosphere
with a few subdivisions
all right cool
have this now
okay now for the actual animation we
want these icospheres yeah the
ecospheres to
um like appear when the bass hits and
then just shrink down to nothing
okay
let's do that and we have to do that in
a simulation
Zone just a quick reminder if you have
no idea how this works I have an entire
tutorial series looking at the
simulation and zones and the simulation
nodes in blender geometry nodes
so you should watch those videos first
probably
all right now let's plug this in we want
to simulate our geometry the geometry in
this case is like I said just a point
cloud
okay now we want
um
the Spheres to shrink down
for that we need to simulate something
in this Zone over time
let's give each sphere the information
of its size we can do that
but just or we could capture an
attribute or we could use a named
attribute but each point in a point
cloud has more than just a position it
also knows it also has a rotation and it
also has a scale which in case of a
point is the radius
so we can go search radius and we can
say set point radius and let's just
start off with a radius of one so we
have sort of a factor between one and
zero
okay we have a radius of one and then
over time which is in here the
simulation so whatever you plug in here
is just for the first frame
after the first frame you're just
simulating stuff here and none of this
input is uh used anymore okay so in our
inside of the simulation we want to get
the point radius and then set the point
radius to a new
a value let's do reduce okay we should
we read the radius and we need a math
node
and we can multiply
the previous radius by I don't know 0.7
and then we set the point radius now of
course this is already working but it's
not showing up because we're not using
it yet because when we actually instant
some icospheres onto our points out here
we can give it a scale and again use the
radius okay now this is actually not
correct yet because on each frame we
create some point onto our big icosphere
and then we want to animate those but
of course on the next frame
they're they're disappeared again
because we create new points onto our
geometry
so we don't actually want to plug this
into our simulation like this
we want two
add the points the new points to the
existing simulation so remember on all
of these frames this is just running in
a circle here this is just keeps
simulating on each frame and we want to
have the points from the previous frame
and add these points to it
so we need to join geometry
the one from the previous frame and we
add the new points to that
and then of course actually we want to
set our
we want to set the point radius only on
the old geometry so the new geometry has
a radius of one the old geometry coming
in from the previous frame has a radius
and we change it and set the new radius
and then we have join
and now let's see if that works
okay
yes seems to be working okay so we're
Distributing points now of course this
is all a bit big so we can either play
with the radius
or we could let's bring this down a
little so we have cleaner noodles
or we could just say okay let's start
with the radius of 0.5 Maybe
yep that's exactly what we want however
there's one thing now that we can't even
see but it is happening and that is let
me just go back a few frames okay so the
bass drum hits we get new points they're
big then with our simulation we decrease
the size by multiplying the previous
radius with 0.7 and then
they just basically disappear because
they get so small however they're still
there
so this geometry here is keeps growing
and keeps growing we just add points and
add points on each frame
we don't need to do this we could just
delete some of the points once they are
not visible anymore anyway right you
don't want to just load up your geometry
node simulation with millions of points
so how do we do that well we can just go
uh geometry delete geometry and what
geometry what points are we going to
delete
uh the ones where we need a math
node
can I just look for less than oh math
less than cool where the radius of the
point
is less than let's just say point I
don't know zero one see how that works
okay
okay and then down here we can see we
have 595 instances currently
we let it run some more now we have 727
okay let's go forward a few frames you
can see
now we have 400
okay now we have more again and then
because when the the base drum hits then
we get a lot of points
um so maybe this value is a bit much
let's just multiply it by two and see
yep okay
pretty cool and we're not just adding
new points
um we're also getting rid of the points
that we can't see anymore anyway and
this is all we need to make sound
reactive Motion Graphics okay now let me
open the demo file and show you all the
other parts
okay this is my demo file and you can
see here I am on the low frequency
object here and this is exactly the same
node tree we take the information from
the cube I called it
low but it's the cube
okay so we take the low information the
C axis we do our high pass filter here
distribute the points set the radius
um
make them smaller over time or decrease
the radius over time we delete the
geometry we can't see anymore we
instance icospheres and then back here I
also set smooth
which you have to do inside of geometry
nodes so that these spheres are smooth
and then I also have a material
the material is this one
where I just assign a random
Factor here to get a little bit of
variation so we have some yellow and
some red
with this color amp and then I use the
layer weight
and I'm sure you've seen this before
this is the layer of weight
and usually it looks like this so that
gives you the angle of the surface to
your camera
and you can turn down the blend so you
can just get the outer the circle
basically of the sphere and you plug
that through a color ramp
you can do something like this
the cool looking and then I just use the
emission Shader
and I don't even know if I need this
hold on do I need this
oh yeah okay I use this Factor here that
gives me just a circle to mix between
the emission Shader and an empty Shader
which gives me the black inside and this
also gives a cool effect because it
looks sort of like a cartoonish Cloud
because we don't get the full circles
where we have overlapping spheres so I
think this is actually a pretty cool
Shader
to create these
sort of cartoony clouds okay now go back
to Geometry nodes let's look at the mid
what have we done for the mid so we're
taking the the C location from our mid
object which was uh the sphere
and then again we separate high pass
filter multiply
and what I've done here is my mid object
this guy here
is actually an ecosphere a very tiny
icosphere in the middle of the scene
and I can emit particles like all of
these thoughts here
by shooting them out along the normal so
if you have the ecosphere you want the
normal it would be here and this normal
will be here right so we can emit
particles like this from our original
geometry which is an icosphere by taking
the normal of our ecosphere
and storing this in a named attribute
and I called it V for velocity so each
of our points
that we're emitting on each frame now
has the velocity I also store another
attribute called age inside of the
simulation I take the H I add one so on
each frame each particle
gets older by one right so read add
store
again we have delete geometry here
because we want to delete the particles
once they leave
um our frame so this is the camera frame
here I don't know if you can see this on
the recording but we don't need to make
them fly out infinitely once they hit
outside here or once they reach the
outside of our frame we can delete them
so that's where what we're doing here if
our age is greater than 60 we delete the
point
and then of course we want to move the
point on each frame we move each point
on the V remember V is our velocity
which is the normal
so we have a lot of particles flying
outwards and also
V let me see here I'm scaling the normal
based on
you can probably see this here
based on the C of our music
right so particles the V Vector velocity
Vector is greater longer where the music
is louder and remember we're just
talking about the mid-range frequencies
here
so the louder mid-range hits that we
have the longer our velocity is which
means the faster these particles are
flying and then back here it's same
thing we're creating ecospheres which
are all of these little dots we have set
smooth have a different material
let's look at the material real quick
the material uses the age
to have a color ramp between h0 and H1
so in order to get a factor between 0
and 1 we have to divide the H by 60.
remember we're deleting the particles
after 60 frames so no particle is ever
older than 60.
so we had a factor between zero and one
so when they're born they're bright
white and then over time we have this
color ramp emission Shader and that's it
so if we hit play
this is what we get
you can see we have some particles
flying faster and some are slower and
that's just the volume of our mid-range
audio
all right
so that's that and then we have the high
frequencies let's look at those geometry
nodes
high frequency high and in here you can
see I don't even have a simulation area
on each frame I simply create two random
vectors
that are just somewhere inside of my
frame so x minus 50 c minus 20 and
they're all on the
on the Y 0 plane
so we just get some random vectors if we
look at it from the front
and then we have two random vectors and
they also have different values because
I plug the frame from our animation
value into the ID here
so we had two different random vectors
create a curve out of that curve to mesh
based on a circle
and then set the material to the high
material the high material is just an
emission Shader with a very high
strength which gives us this sort of
laser beam look
and
down here
I'm using the audio information again
the C value
from The High Frequency info and if and
I say if that is greater than this is
again sort of a high pass
then either we have 0 or that value
which is the high pass and I use that as
the curve Circle for this line so
essentially we get a random line on our
screen on every single frame
but on the frames where the high
frequency audio is not very loud
the radius is zero so we just can't see
it
all right so this doesn't even have an
animation this is just like laser light
flickering and if we put it all together
and hit spacebar
then this is what we get
now remember we got the audio
information into these three objects
here by baking the audio and selecting a
certain frequency range
and if you wanted to create a spectrum
analyzer you could do the same thing
um just I don't know get 10 divisions of
your frequency range and then have bars
scaled on the C and have a Shader going
from green to Yellow to Red it's really
very easy that's it as always the
finished blend file for this tutorial
and many many more is available to
download at patreon.com
thanks for watching see you soon bye
foreign
[Music]